Security by provider (#503)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/basics/security/index.md

---
title: Security
description: Documentation of the Giant Swarm cluster security
date: 2020-05-18
type: page
weight: 20
categories: ["basics"]
last-review-date: 2020-05-18
---

# Security

Regardless of provider, clusters start with restrictive settings already in place. All internal and external network traffic is denied by default, role-based access control prevents unauthorized access to Kubernetes resources, and Pod security policies are in place to prevent Pods from running with root users, risky volume configurations, or additional privileges. All of these can be adapted by the customer to fit their needs. 

> We regularly test our configurations against the CIS Kubernetes Benchmark as well as the CNCF Certified Kubernetes Conformance standard to ensure our platform remains compliant with industry best-practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We regularly test our configurations against the CIS Kubernetes Benchmark as well as other CIS and industry benchmarks for Docker, Linux, and cloud providers to ensure our platform remains compliant with industry best-practices.
```

We focus on CIS K8s but we also do others when working with customers. We have even done a few independent pen tests, but we do those very irregularly, or rather bigger customers do them in the first year of engagements.

> Additionally, each cluster is completely isolated, running inside its own VPC (AWS) or Virtual Network (Azure) within your account. This limits the blast radius to a single cluster in the event that a workload becomes compromised. Other managed Kubernetes offerings offer only soft isolation using namespaces within a single cluster.

Reviewer 2: @puja108 is this ok with you re: isolation?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, each cluster is completely isolated, running inside its own VPC (AWS) or Virtual Network (Azure) within your account. They can be further isolated by keeping clusters in different accounts. On-premises we achieve similar isolation by running the nodes in hypervisors (KVM, VMWare) and isolating clusters' networks within separate VXLAN bridges. We encourage separation of workloads over several clusters to limit the blast radius of incidents.
```

The bit about others is not true or only pertains to certain players in the market.
